Driving Style Recognition for Co-operative Driving: A Survey  
 
 the driver recognizes the road environment
including road layout, traffic conditions, and the behaviour
of nearby vehicles, e.g., distance from the vehicle in front,
and decides actions to take, such as accelerating, braking,
and/or steering.

Zhang et al. [1] assess vehicle dynamic
information and perform a categorization of drivers’
acceleration patterns in specific road curves.

Aggressive
driving behaviours include speeding, failure to stop, lane
violations (such as improper passing), and severe violations
(such as operating recklessly). 

Fancher et
al. [7] classified drivers into five categories: flow conformist,
extremist, hunter/tailgater, planner, and ultraconservative. 

data can be explored in order to discover
repeating patterns and spatio-temporal relationships among
them [8].

In the work of Mudgal et al. [9], speed profiles of
different drivers at a roundabout have been modelled, with
average circulating speed and non-linear parameter such as
position of maximum acceleration determined using
Bayesian inference methods. In addition, vehicular emissions
were estimated using past experimental data. It is found that
speed profiles differ significantly across drivers, as do the
mean speeds at the circulating path of the roundabout. 

 acceleration profile, which can be used for
emission hotspots or aggressive driving behaviour
recognition.

Spectral analysis of velocity, following distance (only
simulation data), gas and brake pedal signals is used for
signal representation by C. Miyajima et al. Then, multiple
component Gaussian Mixture Models (GMM), applied on a
0.32-s frame length, are used for data modelling.

Amata et al. [15] introduce two prediction models for
driving events’ recognition: the first is based on multiple
linear regression analysis which predicts whether the driver
will steer or ease up on the accelerator, or brake; the second
predicts driver decelerating intentions using a Bayesian
Network. The proposed models predict the three driving
actions with over 70% accuracy when the use cases are split
into 9 categories of intersection classes. 

*No real useful data in this article. Might be worth following up some of its sources, though