For every trip we calculated calculated the average
speed of the trip, total mileage, trip time and gas usage

In the meantime, we also calculated the speed variance
and L-2 norm of the acceleration during the trip, which is
sensitive to gas usage and driver’s information patterns

*we don't get gas usage, but other classification could help in trip Identification

For some vehicles, there are two main peaks in
the morning and afternoon denoting the daily commuting.
There are also some relatively even distribution in
all day for some vehicles, which indicates a higher probability
of commercial use in work time. This pattern is
the basis for driver recognition in next section.

*using trip infor for driver recognition?


To test if different drivers have driven the car in different
time periods, we can firstly pick two time periods
and assume two drivers was driving the car. We test the4
following statement:
• H0: The two time periods were droven by two
drivers.
verses
• H1: The two time periods were droven by one same
driver.
To make the decision whether we should reject the null
hypothesis H0, we use classify methods, i.e. Na¨ıve Bayes
and Support Vector Machine to verify the test. We gain
our result based on the following procedures.
1. Randomly choose 80% of the original data from the
two time periods, use them as the training sample,
and leaving the residual 20% to be the test dataset.
2. After labeling training data from the first time period
as class one, and the other time period as class
two, we implement Na¨ıve Bayes and SVM on the
test data to see which class they belong to. We can
analysis on the outcomes to see whether the original
two time periods are actually in the same class.
For example, if the proportion of wrongly predicted
samples is high in both time periods, we can draw
the conclusion that there is actually no large difference
in the two time periods, thus they should be
in the same class.
3. If the two periods are in one class, then the classifier
model (Na¨ıve Bayes or SVM), which is constructed
based on the training set will not be significant to
class the test set. The predicted results will only
based on the sample sizes of training data from two
time periods. Let
N1 = #{training sample of time period one}
N2 = #{training sample of time period two}
Since the two periods are actually in one class,
then the testing data from time period one has
the probability p1 = N1/(N1 + N2) to be assigned
to class one and has the probability p2 =
N2/(N1 +N2) to be assigned to class two. By comparing
the predicting results with p1 and p2, we
can draw the conclusion whether the two periods
belong to the same class.



"Since the relationship between trip average MPG and
trip average MPH is one of the most key characters
of driving behavior, we also implemented k-means clustering
algorithm to explore potential patterns/different
drivers for one vehicle. FIG. 4 illustrates the k-means
clustering results of 6 different vehicles."

*Is this true? Can we extract an estimate for average MPG based on jerk or accelleration profiles?
*could we just test parts of a trip that would be most likely to have significant variation in signatures?










