Fuzzy driving style identifier (DSI)
is designed referring to the conclusion in [39] that typical
average acceleration ranges in city cycles for different driving
styles are: 
(1) calm driving, 1.48–2.13 ft/s2
(2) normal driving, 2.13–2.62 ft/s2
(3) aggressive driving, 2.79–3.61 ft/s2


The drivers’ driving styles can commonly be classified into
three categories, calm, normal, and aggressive, among which
aggressive driving has great contribution to poor fuel economy
while calm driving is helpful to improve fuel economy. Several
methods can be used to recognize drivers’ driving styles,
including statistic method, jerk analysis, Gaussian mixture
models, and fuzzy classification method. Then the drivers’
driving styles can be compensated, and hence the fuel economy
is improved by reallocating the output torque between ICE and
motor without changing the total output torque of the powertrain,
which means the driving intention is strictly followed. 

FROM SOURCES:
DRIVER'S STYLE CLASSIFICATION USING JERK ANALYSIS

classifies driver's style utilizing the statistical information 
from the jerk profile and the road way type and traffic congestion 
level prediction.

"analyzing the
online jerk profile of the driver combined with the statistics
of driver styles specific to different roadway types"

There is not much research being done on this particular
topic. Langari, R.; Jong-Seob Won [5, 6] attempted the
driver style classification by using the ratio of the standard
deviation and the average acceleration extracted from the
acceleration profile within a specified window. If the ratio
is greater than 100%, the driver style is classified as
aggressive, if it is between 50% and 100%, the driver style
is normal, if it is less than 50%, the driver style is calm.
Then Langari and Won incorporated the predicted driver
style into their power management strategy.

. Calm driving: a driver that anticipates other road
user's movement, traffic lights, speed limits, and
avoiding hard acceleration. This driving style
should be most fuel efficient.
• Normal driving: a driver that drives with moderate
acceleration and braking. This driving style is less
fuel efficient.
• Aggressive driving: a driver drives with sudden
acceleration and heavy braking. This driving style is
the least fuel efficient.
• No Speed: the vehicle is not moving.

driver's aggressiveness should be measured
by how fast the driver accelerates and decelerates

Therefore we consider jerk is a more effective
feature than acceleration in driver style classification

On a freeway with no traffic congestion,
even an aggressive driver does not accelerate and decelerate
that much. However on a local road with heavily congested
traffics, even a calm driver has to make many brakeacceleration
moves. Therefore it is important to incorporate
the driving statistics of roadway types into the driver style
classification.

1. Calculate jerk profile within window
2. Calculate standard deviation of jerk for entire window
3. Detect Current road type and traffic congestion level using a roadway type prediction algorithm
4. Calculate jerk ratio y=SDj/j_bar where j_bar is average jerk of the predicted current road-type
5. Map y onto one of the 4 categories above

*Adams Conclusion: Jerk and Accelleration Profiles can both have value to add in creating a signature.












